# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


Your app has some very nice features already (whole workout epic, videos storage and mirroring, etc.). They are not easy tasks overall and you managed to build your core features into app bug-free while still allowing a maintaining a good experience. Nonetheless, we would recommend for the future to not focus on non-essential tasks (from our perspective), such as adding running or the whole social epic. Feel free to discuss this with us on Friday meetings or by any other mean.


For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


Your app has a lot of great features but the current UI hinders the user experience. The easiest thing to do would be to inspire yourselves from other existing apps. Since you already asked for feedback on this part we'll try to help spend a great deal more on this part in friday meetings.

The architecture diagram provides a clear overview of the app structure, and we found no obvious performance or scalability issues.


For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


Overall, your codebase is improving, you have started getting into the habit of decomposing your UI into sub-components. There is some really clean clode, especially videos and camera features. Your documentation is clean, but could be a bit more consistent over the whole project (for instance app-level composables). However, there is an inconsistent use of string resources and some parts of your code architecture could be improved on, for example having a huge when case do get the instructions or title of an exercices feels annoying to maintain in the long run. We also noticed some functions with too many parameters, that could packed together into a single model.

Relative to testing, you've got high coverage (~82% line coverage) but you could still extract more out of some of your UI tests. We found two good end to end tests that go through a defined user flow, and CI/sonar is passing with no code duplication or security hotspots found.

We ran your APK with no notable issues, the app had great performance, no lags. One UX-related concern would be the current state of your navigation: the bottom bar is not linked well to the app navigation (we'll discuss this on friday meetings).


For this part, you received 14.4 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


Your scrum board effectively conveys your vision of the app. You have a clear path for the future of your app. Overall you have integrated the scrum board as a daily productivity tool.


For this part, you received 3.8 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


Regarding scrum, you've become completely autonomous. You understand the process well and have integrated it as your main mean of organising yourselves . 
Documents are always filled on time, and you're never late to friday meetings so great job on that front.


For this part, you received 3.8 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


You always provide something new at every sprint end, and even for the harder sprints (midterms, etc.) you still managed to get some work done. Following what has been said previously, you don't really improve your UI which you really should start focusing on from now on. 


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 5.44. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
