# Milestone M3: Team Feedback

This milestone M3 is the culmination of your SwEnt journey, and it gives us the final opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you performed in the project. By now, you should be capable of demonstrating a solid command of the Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork, and be able to deliver a high-quality, application that is ready for real users.
This feedback report is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback that you received from your coaches during the weekly meetings, over email, on Discord, etc.

You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M3 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M3.md) document.
As mentioned before, the standards for M2 were elevated relative to M1, and this progression continued into M3: we now hold you to the highest professional standard in SwEnt.

For this milestone, we looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

- Application
  - [Completeness](#app-completeness)
  - [Functionality](#app-functionality)
  - [User Experience](#app-user-experience)
- [Design and Implementation](#design-and-implementation)
- [Testing and CI Pipeline](#testing-and-ci-pipeline)
- Process
  - [Documentation](#process-documentation)
  - [Autonomy](#process-autonomy)

## App: Completeness

We first evaluated the depth and complexity of the main __epics__ in your app, along with their contribution to the app, the tangible value they provide to the user, and their alignment with the app’s goals.
We evaluated the extent to which your app meets the __course requirements__ articulated at the start of the semester, and whether they are implemented effectively, they integrate seamlessly, and are indeed essential to the app.
We then looked at the __robustness and completeness__ of the different features you implemented: are all the features finished and polished, are they secure and bug-free, and are they thoughtfully designed.


You’ve implemented a lot of complex features in your app, with most of your epics fully or nearly fully completed. Great work on the ML feedback! The app meets all requirements and makes excellent use of the camera and GPS. The offline mode is solid as well. Great job!


For this part, you received 7.4 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: Functionality

In this context, we assessed your app's ability to __handle unexpected inputs__ provided by clueless or malicious users (including spamming buttons, entering wrong inputs, stopping a process mid-way, etc.); we wanted to see that your app handles all edge cases gracefully, has comprehensive error handling, and includes robust mechanisms for maintaining stability under stress.

We then evaluated the performance and reliability of the final product, i.e., __the APK__: we wanted to see that your APK is stable and delivers excellent performance, the UI responds quickly and has seamless navigation.

Next we looked into your implementation of __user authentication and multi-user support__: does the app correctly manage users, can users personalize their accounts, does the app support session persistence, are multi-user interactions well supported, can a user recover a lost password, can accounts be used on another device, and is account information preserved when switching devices.


The APK ran smoothly with no performance issues, and navigation was seamless. The only minor issues we noticed were with UI responsiveness, such as small visual bugs like button labels wrapping to a new line. Additionally, some screens, like the running screen, didn’t fit the entire display and were unnecessarily scrollable.
Account management was well handled, users can easily switch between accounts, logout or delete there account.


For this part, you received 7.1 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: User Experience

For this part, we wanted to see how __intuitive and user-friendly__ the app is for real users. Beyond having good usability, did you pay attention to streamlining the interactions, is it easy to figure out, can new users start making good use of the app quickly, are the interaction flows well thought out and refined.


Your whole app is easy to understand and the navigation has been greatly improved from the M2, especially because of the great menu you added/improved. The different tutorials and tips make it quicker for new users to catch on the nice features you implemented. There can still be improvements compared to a good app on the Play store, but you were on the right path at the end of M3.


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Design and Implementation

We evaluated whether __your code is of high quality and employs best practices__, is it modular and robust, etc.
We expect the codebase to be polished, well documented, follow consistent conventions, be modular, and allow for easy modifications.
You should be able to employ advanced techniques by now, such as asynchronous functions (flows, coroutines), good resource management, and automated dependency injection (e.g., with Hilt).

We assessed your overall __app architecture and design__, looking in particular at aspects surrounding robustness and scalability.
We looked at both the codebase and the documentation of the app (Wiki and architecture diagram).
We expect your design to demonstrate thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth.


Your code quality overall is very good while struggling a bit to make clean UI code, you understand the main design patterns well and use them seamlessly in your development process. The app architecture is well defined, which helped you build the app for different epics without running into conflicts with each other. It is also very scalable and maintanable.


For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Testing and CI Pipeline

The first aspect we looked at here was your __test suite__, in terms of both quality and the final line coverage.
We expect testing the be rigorous and to cover all components and edge cases, and they should validate every significant user journey.
Line coverage should be getting close to 90%.
Your end-to-end tests should be detailed and include error-handling scenarios.
The tests should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
Finally, your test suite should demonstrate  advanced techniques, mock data for performance testing, and automated regression tests.

We then considered the quality of your __repository setup and the CI pipeline__, and how professional it is and how easy it is for new developers to bring contributions to the project.
We expect your repository to have a logical structure, use consistent naming, and take full advantage of CI (code quality checks, linting, formatting, etc.)
Ideally, you should also have automated performance testing, deployment pipelines, and the CI should provide detailed feedback for developers.


Your overall coverage on the project is good (82%), considering the features you implemented this is some good work, showing you understand the importance of writing thorough, specific and meaningful tests integrated with CI to produce close to industry standard code. For your end2end tests, there are 4 but 1 of them is a bit short and doesn't follow a 'proper' userflow.


For this part, you received 6.6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Process: Documentation

We looked at your `README` and GitHub Wiki to evaluate the quality and completeness of __your app’s documentation__. We expect the README and Wiki to be thorough and achieve professional-level clarity and completeness.
They should provide detailed descriptions of the app's architecture, implementation of the features, and the development setup.
We also assessed __your use of Figma and the architecture diagram__ for effective UI design, organization, and app structure planning.
By this stage, we expect your Figma to be complete, up-to-date, and to include UI elements for future features, showing foresight and organization.
The architecture diagram should be comprehensive, providing a clear and detailed overview of the app structure and dependencies.
The architecture should be robust, scalable, and optimized for performance, security, and future development.


The wiki and README are quite basic and don’t provide enough information for a new developer to quickly get up to speed with your workflow. Sections like code conventions and a CONTRIBUTE.md are missing. The Figma however is solid and fully up-to-date with the app.


For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Process: Autonomy

A primary goal of SwEnt is to teach you how to __function autonomously as a team__.
For this part of the evaluation, we assessed you team’s independence, spanning Sprint 6 to Sprint 10, based on the meetings with coaches, Sprint planning, and how you managed risk.
By this stage, coaches should no longer be necessary for the team to operate, i.e., you can organize yourselves, you don't need to be reminded about tasks, and you can conduct the Scrum ceremonies on your own.


Your team has a solid grasp of SCRUM and has no trouble organizing yourselves. Everyone takes their work seriously and communicates effectively.
On another note, congratulations on your well-deserved second place in the BOTA! You created a really awesome app and we had a lot of fun watching it evolve throughout the semester.


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M3 is 5.36.

The entire SwEnt staff wishes you the very best in your career, and we look forward to seeing you do great things with what you learned this semester.